well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we're gonna talk about
solutions we're gonna talk about things
we can actually do to help stem the tide
and help stop the plague that is
sweeping the nation when we wake up
every morning and we see the toll we
feel hopeless we feel helpless because
there's nothing we can do about it and
everybody's looking for some magic pill
you know some people want to point
directly to the firearm itself this is
what's to blame some people want to
point to pharmaceuticals because there's
there's a trend there too some people
want to point to a whole bunch of
different things with that logic we're
never gonna get there because this is a
cultural issue it's something I've said
for a long time and it's pretty
widespread pharmaceuticals for example
yeah there's a trend there there is the
thing is that's also just a symptom
people don't wake you know get born with
a prescription there's a reason that
they were taking so I had my own
theories and I've talked about him in
videos and the thing is I would never
present them as fact I would present him
as my opinion because they were based on
my observations from me looking at cases
that interested in me I never never did
in a scientific manner so I never had
any hard data to back it up until today
the LA Times ran an article about the
violence project it's funded by the
National Institute of justice it's been
going on two years it's a study and it's
a little different than other studies
these guys didn't set out with the idea
of okay well we want to see if 30 round
magazines were to blame we want to see
if psychotropic drugs are to blame it's
not having dead
they went back and they cataloged the
life histories of the shooters and they
did this for every mass shooter going
back to 1966 and every workplace
religious institution or school shooter
going back to 1999 whether or not it was
a mass incident or montt they identified
four things that are almost universally
present that's where we have to start so
what are the four things first one is
one we all know we call it bullying but
it's more than that early childhood
trauma
this is bullying this is parental
suicide this is child abuse sexual abuse
this is exposure to violence at an early
age all of these things early childhood
trauma the next is that there's an
identifiable I think they call it a
crisis point rather than a flash point
there's an identifiable moment where in
the weeks leading up to the shooting the
months leading up to the shooting
something happened and that's when the
decision was made that was the point of
no return there was time after that
incident and before the shooting there
were those people around the shooter
maybe maybe could have done something
maybe they knew maybe they knew
something was off but because they don't
know how to reach out to a professional
or they don't know how to really
identify and didn't really know what
they were looking at it nothing happened
the third thing is that they all studied
other shooters they looked at other
shooters because this is a socially
transmitted disease which means in the
days of social media it can reach
epidemic proportions people that lose
hope people that reach this conclusion
they can find notoriety after their
death the fourth thing is kind of a
no-brainer this was the one that I
didn't really think about but did and
actually said in videos but never
realized how prevalent it was means yeah
if you're gonna be a active shooter he
can't you need a firearm right in the
cases that I talked about I pointed out
that you know school shooters don't go
and buy the gun they get it from a
family members gun cabinet turns out
that's not just that's not just true in
the cases that I talked about
that's true in 80% of them 80% and then
what they found out was that a workplace
shooting was normally a handgun that was
legally owned and that public space
shootings were normally illegal
purchases so what does this tell you
when you really sit down and think about
it it's not going to be the answer
just like the first one the talking
points that we're looking at as a
country they're all wrong oh that's what
this study is telling us boldly they're
all wrong so what can we actually do
early childhood trauma we can't do
anything about that really can't
especially just stem attacks that are
gonna happen tomorrow because that
happened 20 years ago there's nothing we
can do about it yeah in the future we
need to let kids be kids but that's
gonna require a pretty wide pretty
wide-ranging social reform okay
the crisis point yeah we need to learn
how to identify people in crisis we need
to learn how to identify that we need to
learn what we're looking for and we need
to learn what to do if it comes up
because if the first instinct may be to
call to Congress and hopefully some
psychologists can chime in on this but
that may not be the best answer from
where I'm sitting because if they've
already purchased the weapon and the
cops show up may not give you the
outcome you're looking for but there is
something we can do as far as this one
most of the incidents that triggered it
they were minor so lack of coping skills
it is a lack of coping skills if the
shooter themselves had access to to an
inventory of methods to to cope with
whatever that inciting incident was well
they wouldn't be shooting up places so
we need to start teaching that
and we need to start as popular as this
statement is going to be we need to
start with white males aged 16 to 35 why
because that's mainly the shooter's norm
expand out from there but that's the
priority there is one thing we can do
with means you know legislation what the
these stats tell us is the legislation
about who's purchasing the weapon isn't
going to any gun but it's really not but
there's something we can do about school
shootings lock up your weapons secure
your firearms and this is on the gun
crown you got to do it
can't just say you're gonna do it you
have to do it secure your firearms and
don't tell your favorite nephew the code
that would have stopped 80% of school
shootings they didn't purchase the
weapon it wasn't theirs they got it from
somebody else
secure your firearms you may have
noticed in the past that I rarely name
the shooter it's because of that third
reason they studied other shooters and
what they found out was that then get
notoriety after death don't name them
don't name them yeah it leads to some
pretty depressing comments when I do it
because people have to ask what shooting
are you talking about
use this city location or the names of a
victim when you talk about it don't use
their name anything else but their name
as well well again as it sounds
make them a non-person that's what we
can do that's how we can stem this tide
secure your firearms start teaching
people coping skills and stop using
their name stop glorifying them even
though it's not glorification the way
you think of it they become notable they
make it onto a Wikipedia page deny them
that
now since I have you here there is one
thing I won't point out about the El
Paso shooting seeing a lot of news
outlets say that well he went there to
kill the illegals no no he didn't he did
not he did not I've read just about
every report not a single one of them
says that he checked visas he went there
to kill brown people was racism don't
make him sound like a vigilante
it was just pure racism anyway it's just
a fault you know I have a good night